# gqlmeetup

This is an example graphql server built using [gqlgen](https://github.com/99designs/gqlgen). It features:

- PostgreSQL backend using [sqlx](https://github.com/jmoiron/sqlx)
- Dataloaders using [dataloaden](https://github.com/vektah/dataloaden)
- Tests
- Authorization using JWT Tokens

## Architecture

This project mostly follows Ben Johnson's [standard package layout](https://medium.com/@benbjohnson/standard-package-layout-7cdbc8391fc1). The domain types and interfaces are defined in the root package (`gqlmeetup.go`). The subpackages are mostly implementations of the interfaces defined by the root package.

### `bcrypt`

This subpackage wraps the standard library bcrypt package and provides methods for checking and hashing user passwords. It provides the implementation of the `PasswordService` interface.

### `cmd`

`cmd` subpackage holds the executables.

### dataloaden

This is where the dataloader code is located. Much of the code is generated using the [dataloaden](https://github.com/vektah/dataloaden) tool. The subpackage provides an implmentation of the `DataLoaderService` interface and it depends on the `DataLoaderRepository` interface for all database-related functionality.

### gqlgen

This subpackage holds the code generated by [gqlgen](https://github.com/99designs/gqlgen) along with custom resolver definitions, directives logic and some helper functions for initializing the handlers used by the server. This subpackage has the following dependencies:

- `Repository` which provides the resolvers with database functionality;
- `DataLoaderService` which provides the resolvers with dataloader functionality (for optimizing relational queries and avoiding the n+1 query problem);
- `PasswordService` which gives resolvers the ability to check and hash passwords;
- `TokenService` which provides a variety of token issuing/checking functions.

### http

This subpackage implements a simple HTTP server along with some middlewares that used by the GraphQL server. The package depends on `TokenService` and `DataLoaderService` interface implementations as the server needs to be able to initialize the dataloaders and check the tokens on every incoming request.

### jwt

This subpackage wraps the [jwt-go](github.com/dgrijalva/jwt-go) package and provides the functionality related to issuing, decoding and checking the tokens as well as functions.

### mockes

Mock versions of the root package interfaces which are used for testing. The mocks are automatically generated using [moq](github.com/matryer/moq).

### postgres

This package provides the database-related functionality to the resolvers (via its implementation of the `Repository` interface) and dataloaders (via its implementation of the `DataLoaderRepository` interface). I'm using the wonderful [sqlx](https://github.com/jmoiron/sqlx) to make working with PostgreSQL easier.
